Web Summer Camp Program 2024:
Title: Turning marketing into a revenue-generating engine for services companies, Description: How to turn marketing into a revenue-generating engine for services companiesMost marketing teams are overwhelmed with work and an endless list of changing priorities. As a result, marketing efforts are spread too thin in too many directions, and it is difficult to demonstrate compelling results.We will introduce a proven framework for establishing a systemic approach to marketing planning and execution that leads to predictable business outcomes.Focusing on Ideal Profile Customers: a true shortcut to business growthIn business, there is rarely a hack that allows one to achieve extraordinary results, and if such a hack is identified, it is usually quickly exploited to render it ineffective. However, identifying your Ideal Customer Profile (ICP) customers and relentlessly focusing on meeting the needs of this group of customers can help you achieve extraordinary and sustainable business results. In the session, we will also explore what are the benefits of focusing on ICP, how to prepare ICP profiles and how to identify your ICP customers.How to effectively engage technical buyers in the digital eraResearch shows that technical buyers have a say in most purchase decisions made in B2B markets. Moreover, technical buyer expectations and behaviour significantly differ from those of business buyers. They are rather averse to anything they perceive as being marketing or marketing-prepared information.Nevertheless, there is a clear path to market to this audience that we will explore in this session.You will learn:How do technology buyers make buying decisions?How to identify and leverage technical communities and influencers?How to use content to engage engineers and industrial buyers?Note to founders!As a special benefit for Web Summer Camp attendees, Andrejs and Rolands will provide 1:1 or small-group consulting workshops on Saturday 6th on the topic of building partner sales and more in-depth marketing content planning. No extra charge! ;-) You can book your workshop here: https://calendly.com/andrejsj/workshop, Date: 2024-07-05 10:00:00 - 2024-07-05 12:00:00, Speaker: Andrejs Juščenko, Job Title: Go-To-Market strategist @ IBD Consulting, Bio: Experienced in extensive solution sales and business development in the IT sector. With 11 years at Microsoft, he led a transformation of the Microsoft Cloud business across 24 European countries. Helps tech companies across Europe develop and implement growth strategies., Track: Business Track
Title: Lessons Learnt in Personalization, Description: This talk is aimed to create a shared opportunity to learn, get inspiration, and discuss personalization based on implementing it in various digital projects. The focus will be on useful approaches that helped us lead the projects, the need to be backed by conceptual frameworks, and how the concept of digital maturity shapes the project. We will also look at blockers and ways to avoid them. We want to talk less about specific technologies and more about how people and teams can leverage personalization to create effortless and meaningful digital experiences., Date: 2024-07-04 10:00:00 - 2024-07-04 12:00:00, Speaker: Alex Net, Job Title: General Manager @ Infinitum Digital, Bio: Leader at Infinitum Digital agency, which provides consulting and implementation services in the Digital arena. Brings over 20 years of CX expertise and a strong business background acquired at ESADE Business School with an MBA and a Global e-Commerce Master., Track: Business Track
Title: Designing Success: The Agile Edge in Business Performance, Description: In today's fast-paced market, the secret to outperforming the S&P 500 lies at the intersection of design thinking and agile methodologies. Companies that embrace a design-driven and agile approach not only excel in meeting user needs but also in innovating, operational efficiency, and adaptability. This strategic integration leads to enhanced product quality, brand strength, and employee engagement, ultimately resulting in superior financial performance. The agile design approach, with its focus on rapid prototyping and iterative development, ensures businesses stay ahead by being responsive to market changes and customer feedback. Embracing this dual focus is not just a strategy but a necessity for future-focused companies aiming for sustainable growth and a competitive edge., Date: 2024-07-04 15:30:00 - 2024-07-04 17:30:00, Speaker: Sebastian Žetko, Job Title: Senior UX Designer @ Creatim, Bio: I am a Digital Product Designer and User Experience Expert, with more than 12 years of experience in Digital Product Design, mostly for B2B, eCommerce Design., Track: Business Track
Title: How people experience the web, and why we are doing it wrong, Description: Whenever new technologies are introduced, for a time they imitate the old technology they are replacing before evolving into their true form.The introduction of book printing changed the world: information became more available, and much more affordable, and a whole new infrastructure and economy was created for the distribution of information.It also changed the ownership of information, from the church, which was the source of all books before the printing press, and this in turn created great turmoil as new thought patterns emerged.But for 50 years after the printing press was invented, books imitated manuscripts, before finally becoming what we now understand as books. The internet in Europe is 36 years old this year. In very similar ways, it has changed the world: information is more available and cheaper, and there is a whole new infrastructure and economy to support it. Similarly, it is creating a new turmoil as we deal with the changing way that people obtain information. But also similarly, the internet is still imitating pre-internet media: it could be described as paper documents without the paper, only the paper has been digitised away.So what should the internet really be like, and can we expect it to emerge in the next 15 years?, Date: 2024-07-04 10:00:00 - 2024-07-04 12:00:00, Speaker: Steven Pemberton, Job Title: Researcher @ CWI Amsterdam, Bio: Distinguished researcher in the fields of interaction, declarative programming, and web tech. Steven’s university tutor was Dick Grimsdale, who built the world's first transistorized computer and was himself a tutee of Alan Turing., Track: Business Track
Title: Audience Experience: The “WHY” of Content Management, Description: In this content strategy session, we talk about Audience Experience - the intersection of content strategy and content management - and how to enable your clients (or yourself!) to:Create content strategy,Produce "good content," andGet the most out of the technical framework you give them with your CMS.Better content management and better content strategy both lead to better Audience Experiences. You're the experts on making your CMS sing :-) ... So let's talk about purpose-driven content.Content is at the center of the audience experience. No content, no experience, right?Every website we build has a purpose: to communicate with our intended audience, offer them the chance to connect with us, and take an action we suggest. The better the experience, the more likely it is for us to find the people who want and appreciate what we have to offer.If you accept this premise, all our decisions and efforts should be put through the lens of "How does this improve the Audience Experience?"Takeaways + Questions Answered include:Improve the Audience Experiences you deliverHow do we define "good content"?How does a team achieve good content?How does your CMS/project support content strategy?Who is responsible for good experiences? (Divide and conquer!)How can you support your clients and teams in their mission to deliver good content?, Date: 2024-07-04 15:30:00 - 2024-07-04 17:30:00, Speaker: Jeffrey A. McGuire, Job Title: Partner @ Open Strategy Partners, Bio: Jeffrey A. "jam" McGuire is recognized as a memorable and charismatic communicator with a strong following at the intersection of open source software, business, community, and culture., Track: Business Track
Title: Staying ahead... What are the successful service business doing? What should you be doing?, Description: What are the high-performers doing right now? What can you do to catch up or stay ahead of the game? In this engaging workshop, we'll explore what needs to be done!Robert will be sharing his experience of working with over 100 agencies across Europe. We'll discuss:How good is your agency?What are the high performers doing differently?What should you be doing, right now?The workshop will be fast-paced and interactive. By the end of it, you will have a better understanding of how some agencies are doing better and how you can join them., Date: 2024-07-05 15:30:00 - 2024-07-05 17:30:00, Speaker: Robert Craven, Job Title: Director @ Grow Your Digital Agency, Bio: Known for his no-nonsense approach to business growth, Robert has worked with agencies and e-comm businesses from Bucharest and Split to Slovenia, from London to Dublin, from Warsaw to Kiev, from Singapore to New York., Track: Business Track
Title: Lessons learned from working with 1000 agencies, Description: Internal agency processes play a huge part in delivering quality products and services to clients. Based on what's happening in the market today, making sure the business works like a well-oiled machine has never been more important. Agencies are looking to cut costs, optimize their workflows and report on utilization and profitability more accurately than ever before. Productive is a company that provides agencies with a tool that helps with all of the above, and has vast experience working with over 1000 software dev, marketing and other creative service providers all over the world. This session will give you a look into what Productive does, how they build their product to satisfy the needs of various types of agencies using it, how the current market changes that affect agencies also affect them, and what lessons they've learned working with an ever-growing customer base., Date: 2024-07-05 14:35:00 - 2024-07-05 15:15:00, Speaker: Kresimir Simicic, Job Title: VP of Business Development @ Productive, Bio: Brings a great experience in selling SaaS products to customers all over the world. Runs sales, customer success and support at Productive, a product company that builds and sells an end-to-end agency management platform used by more than 1200 agencies globally., Track: Business Track
Title: Evolutionary Architecture: the art of making decisions, Description: Join me for an engaging session that explores the indispensable role of decision-making in maintaining the evolvability of architectural designs. Drawing inspiration from Antoni Gaudi's visionary approach in crafting La Sagrada Familia, we delve into the art of decision-making, highlighting its criticality in ensuring the longevity and adaptability of our architectures.By the end of this talk, you'll gain a profound understanding of the significance of decision-making in shaping robust architectures and walk away with a practical toolkit of best practices-inspired by Gaudi's methodology-to effectively manage and document your architectural decisions.Don't miss this opportunity to elevate your architectural decision-making skills and fortify the foundations of your projects for the future., Date: 2024-07-06 15:30:00 - 2024-07-06 17:30:00, Speaker: José Enrique Calderón Sanz, Job Title: Lead Software Engineer @ JP Morgan Chase., Bio: Jose is a Lead Software Engineer with a decade of experience driving cutting-edge software solutions. Jose is consistently seeking opportunities to advance equal access and representation in the tech industry, also a Affiliate Professor at University of Glasgow., Track: Conference Talks
Title: Stop using JavaScript for that: moving features from JS to CSS and HTML, Description: Common patterns implemented with JavaScript are being replaced with "native" CSS and HTML equivalents that end up being more performant, more accessible and more resilient. Features like accordions, Autosuggest, smooth scrolling, dialogs, parallax scrolling and more no longer need JavaScript to work. We'll walk through common JS features that now have CSS and HTML equivalents that you can use, or will soon be able to use., Date: 2024-07-06 15:30:00 - 2024-07-06 17:30:00, Speaker: Kilian Valkhof, Job Title: Founder @ Polypane, Bio: Kilian is a front-end developer with over 20 years of experience that switched from building websites to building apps to build websites with. He is interested in modern web development, desktop app development and new technologies., Track: Conference Talks
Title: Modernizing Legacy Apps: Platforms and Strategies, Description: While every day enchanting stories of groundbreaking and revolutionary frameworks dominate the tech headlines and clog our online feeds, substantial value persists in a forest of legacy applications constructed upon steadfast frameworks that stood the test of time. Many of them are still desktop, live on dedicated servers and never experienced the thrill of the cloud. A big rewrite is always a fascinating option that excites developers, but it always sounds risky to management. How to blame them, after all? So, this talk doesn't have easy answers to though questions. Honestly, it doesn't even come with the ultimate purpose of delivering working solutions. It's a plain discussion on platforms to consider and strategies to apply., Date: 2024-07-06 13:15:00 - 2024-07-06 15:15:00, Speaker: Dino Esposito, Job Title: CTO @ Crionet, Bio: After 20+ books that educated two generations of developers, 1000+ articles, hundreds of conference talks and 10000+ hours of training, Dino returned to software development and architecture., Track: Conference Talks
Title: DX, UX, UI: Things You Didn’t Notice & How To Fix Them, Description: This talk provides a brief overview of DX (Developer Experience), UX (User Experience), and UI (User Interface), exploring how developers and users perceive these concepts and our roles within them.Throughout the presentation, we will delve into various modern services and products, proposing solutions for instances where their experience or design falls short of expectations.Towards the conclusion, we will explore the factors that contribute to or hinder a positive DX, discuss best practices and pitfalls in UX (with a quick reference to the 10 usability heuristics), and outline simple steps developers can take to enhance their design skills., Date: 2024-07-06 13:15:00 - 2024-07-06 15:15:00, Speaker: Eleftheria Batsou, Job Title: Community Manager @ CrabNebula, Bio: Eleftheria Batsou is a Community Manager at CrabNebula, hailing from Greece. As a developer and UX researcher, she specializes in creating educational content for various platforms, including Packt, Udemy, Skillshare, and X (Twitter)., Track: Conference Talks
Title: Supercharge your coding: Integrating ChatGPT and Copilot in long-term projects, Description: Are you a developer looking to unlock the full potential of AI in your long-term software development endeavors? If so, this presentation is crafted specifically for you. In this session, we will integrate cutting-edge AI technologies, such as ChatGPT and GitHub Copilot, into your development processes. We emphasize sustainability and long-term rewards, delving into the fast-evolving landscape of AI-powered development tools. You will gain valuable insights on seamlessly incorporating these innovations into your workflow, enhancing productivity, improving code quality, and fostering groundbreaking innovation in your projects. Don't miss this opportunity to be at the forefront of AI-driven development!, Date: 2024-07-06 15:30:00 - 2024-07-06 17:30:00, Speaker: Mihaela-Roxana Ghidersa, Job Title: Technical Lead @ Signant Health, Bio: Software engineer and technology passionate - I enjoy building and delivering quality while trying to have fun as much as possible., Track: Conference Talks
Title: The Unreliable Computer Revolution: Embracing the Double-Edged Sword of GenAI, Description: Generative AI (GenAI) has turned our notion of computing on its head. Once the symbol of reliability, GenAI allows computers to be unpredictable creative engines. They're capable of generating text, images, audio, and code, but more stunning is how they can make disparate and broad conceptual and metaphorical connections, all without truly understanding anything about the input or their own output. In this session, we delve into the implications of this shift and explore how to harness the power of GenAI while mitigating its challenges. We'll discuss the importance of structured prompting, knowledge representation, and content optimization in reducing AI "hallucinations." Attendees will gain insights into integrating GenAI with more stable AI technologies and learn how to create AI-aligned workflows that promote collaboration between humans and machines. As we embark on this journey of taming these wacky digital artists, it's essential to remain open-minded and adaptable, embracing the intersection of creativity and unpredictability to unlock new possibilities in the digital landscape., Date: 2024-07-06 10:00:00 - 2024-07-06 12:00:00, Speaker: Noz Urbina, Job Title: Founder @ Urbina Consulting, Bio: Globally recognized content strategist. Pioneer in experience mapping and adaptive content design for personalized, contextually relevant content for omnichannel experiences. Author of the book “Content Strategy: Connecting the dots between business, brand, and benefits”., Track: Conference Talks
Title: Core Web Vitals under control, Description: Core Web Vitals is a universal set of user-centric metrics initiated by Google that allows us to analyse, qualify and optimise for the quality of user experience.In my talk, I will tell you which metrics build this set and which factors impact their results. I will also show you tools to measure and debug Core Web Vitals. Last but not least, I will put the presented theory into practice and demonstrate good practices for improving Web Vitals metrics in your project.Enjoy and keep Core Web Vitals under control!, Date: 2024-07-06 13:15:00 - 2024-07-06 15:15:00, Speaker: Marta Wiśniewska, Job Title: Angular & Web Google Developer Expert, Bio: Google Developer Expert in Angular and Web Technologies from Poland. An international speaker and blogger. Passionate about Angular, PWA, and web tech trends. Enjoys sharing knowledge and fostering community engagement in technology., Track: Conference Talks
Title: The 100 year web, Description: This year is the thirty-third anniversary of the World Wide Web being announced: on 6 August 1991, Tim Berners-Lee posted a short summary of the World Wide Web project to an internet newsgroup inviting collaborators; the first web servers had been made publicly available a few months earlier.In the intervening years, the web has become an essential part of society's fabric. Part of that is that a huge amount of information that used to be available on paper is now (only) available electronically. One of the dangers of this is that information owners often treat the data as something ephemeral and delete old information once it becomes out of date. As a result, society is at risk of losing large parts of its history.So it is time to assess how we use the web, how it has been designed, and what we should do to ensure that in one hundred years time (and beyond) we will still be able to access, and read, what we are now producing. We can still read 100 year-old books; why should that be any different for the Web?This talk takes a historical view of the web, comparing its effects with those of the introduction of the book in the 15th century. It will discuss the web from its early days: why it was successful compared to other similar systems emerging at the time, the things it did right, the mistakes that were made, and how it has developed into the web we know today. It will also examine the extent to which it meets the requirements needed for such an essential part of society's infrastructure, and what still needs to be done., Date: 2024-07-06 10:00:00 - 2024-07-06 12:00:00, Speaker: Steven Pemberton, Job Title: Researcher @ CWI Amsterdam, Bio: Distinguished researcher in the fields of interaction, declarative programming, and web tech. Steven’s university tutor was Dick Grimsdale, who built the world's first transistorized computer and was himself a tutee of Alan Turing., Track: Conference Talks
Title: Democratizing Design for Better Collaboration, Description: Visual design can seem daunting and can often be gatekept as something "you're just born with" but in reality, it is something that can be taught. As we move into a future of more iterative and fast-paced processes, being able to communicate and work together in a way where product managers, designers and developers understand one another is key.In this talk, I flip the question "Should designers learn to code?" and instead answer the question: "Why should developers learn about design?" Dive into the advantages of learning user experience and visual design basics to become a better developer and team member and level up your career., Date: 2024-07-06 10:00:00 - 2024-07-06 12:00:00, Speaker: Stephanie Stimac, Job Title: Design and Product Consultant, Bio: Designer and product manager with over 14 years of experience. Specialized in developer experiences and tooling. Author of Design for Developers, written to help developers learn design and UX fundamentals., Track: Conference Talks
Title: Testing Symfony applications with Codeception, Description: A perfect workshop for everyone feeling overwhelmed by bugs in the Symfony projects!While discussing the testing process in general, this workshop aims to equip attendees to overcome the testing challenges of projects that are deep in the development or maintenance phases.Here are the segments we'd like to cover and the question we'll provide answers for:Which tests are suitable for specific projects or project phases?How to maintain existing tests?Does writing PHP tests make sense if we have a QA team?An overview of Codeception and showcase of how to configure Codeception within Symfony.Which Symfony bundles should we use when testing with Codeception?An overview of different types of tests in Codeception.Providing a link to the GitHub project where we will prepare a Symfony application with configured Codeception and existing test cases.Diving into Functional and Acceptance tests on Symfony application., Date: 2024-07-04 10:00:00 - 2024-07-04 12:00:00, Speaker: Marko Čučković, Job Title: Tech Lead @ Factory, Bio: Tech Lead at Factory, and a senior full stack web developer who started his development career while still at university. In over 10 years of experience, he worked on projects on both mobile and web platforms, specializing in Symfony 6 years ago, Track: Symfony Workshops
Title: Custom Chatbots with GPT and Symfony PHP framework, Description: With the release of OpenAI's GPT, large language models gained a lot of awareness. Building custom chatbots is a great way to provide users with an interactive experience with your product or website. In this workshop, we will examine the fundamentals and build your very first GPT-based chatbot in our example domain., Date: 2024-07-05 13:15:00 - 2024-07-05 15:15:00, Speaker: Christopher Hertel, Job Title: Team Manager Software Architecture @ Quentic, Bio: PHP Developer & Software Architect with a strong focus on balancing technical decisions between the beauty of elegant coding and the daily pragmatism of business needs., Track: Symfony Workshops
Title: Demystify Symfony - Understanding the functions of the framework, Description: Symfony offers many great functions that make our lives much easier. For example, thanks to dependency injection and Service Container, we never have to worry about having a class available anywhere.But what has been given to us for years is actually not even a function of PHP.This and other features of the framework that we use so often. Let's take a closer look at how they work and make their magic easy to understand., Date: 2024-07-04 13:15:00 - 2024-07-04 15:15:00, Speaker: Oliver Kossin, Job Title: Symfony Developer @ QOSSMIC, Bio: Symfony/Sulu Developer at QOSSMIC since 2021. Brings a wealth of experience when it comes to working in PHP. Part of the Sulu team for two years. Resides in Cologne, Germany., Track: Symfony Workshops
Title: Enjoying frontend with Symfony UX, Description: It's hard to create quality user experiences with JavaScript. It takes time to choose reliable packages, configure them, integrate them into your pages and make your front-end code interact with the rest of your infrastructure.This workshop will introduce you to Symfony UX and the tools it relies on. We'll discover how to build modular, interactive interfaces using small, reusable JavaScript components that can be easily tested automatically. We'll also learn how to leverage Symfony UX and Turbo to build advanced user experiences using the micro-front-end approach.Together we'll discover the "LAST stack", an acronym that stands for "Live Component, AssetMapper, Stimulus, and Turbo". It's a front-end stack that allows us to create rich, dynamic interfaces with a SPA feel. All this in code that's accessible to even the most "backend" of you! We'll take a look at the concepts behind this new stack and how to get the most out of each of its components., Date: 2024-07-05 10:00:00 - 2024-07-05 12:00:00, Speaker: Nicolas Grekas, Job Title: Principal Engineer @ Symfony, Bio: Principal Engineer at Symfony, the company. Symfony core team member & top-ranking contributor. Worked as a CTO for Blackfire.io, the PHP profiler that we were all missing., Track: Symfony Workshops
Title: Building Cutting-Edge CI/CD Pipelines using Dagger and PHP, Description: Dagger is genuinely the next evolution of CI/CD implementation.As a subject matter expert in CI/CD, I spent years building the perfect system to mitigate challenges we face at the tech and business level.Now, along comes Dagger, created by Solomon, the founder of Docker. It makes so many challenges disappear, by design, and opens up so many new possibilities along the way.In this workshop, I'll be your guide in a deep dive into Dagger-land, demonstrating how to strategically start integrating this into your existing projects and start benefiting from the awesomeness, using 100% PHP.Say goodbye to Dockerfiles, YAML files, BASH files.Say hello to pure PHP., Date: 2024-07-04 13:15:00 - 2024-07-04 15:15:00, Speaker: Paul Dragoonis, Job Title: CTO and Principal Engineer, Bio: Open-source contributor, public speaker, trainer, and consultant by trade. Member of the CD Foundation, PHP, PHP-FIG, and Jenkins projects/teams., Track: PHP Workshops
Title: Locking down performance with PHPBench, Description: PHPBench is a benchmarking tool for PHP. It allows you to accurately measure the performance profile of units of code. It is to performance what PHPUnit is to testing and is trusted by many popular open-source projects.In this workshop, participants will learn how to:Profile and compare code performance in a variety of scenariosWrite custom reports in HTML and on the terminalWrite custom extensionsParticipants will leave knowing how easy it is to start performance testing their projects!, Date: 2024-07-04 10:00:00 - 2024-07-04 12:00:00, Speaker: Daniel Leech, Job Title: Software Engineer, Bio: Daniel has been developing with PHP for 17 years during which time he has comitted his time to numerous open source side- projects which include PHPBench and Phpactor., Track: PHP Workshops
Title: The How and Why of OpenAPI, Description: OpenAPI is the standard way to describe your HTTP API, adopted by most modern APIs. With the spec at the centre of your workflow, you can improve the quality of your API and development practices, and make integrations painless. With standardisation comes tooling, and in this session, I will show you to leverage this to your advantage. We'll cover what OpenAPI is, why it's interesting and how to use it. We will also look at how the OpenAPI specification enables you to create documentation, use mock servers and improve the robustness of our API with validation. This session is ideal for anyone who wants to write an API specification once and use it everywhere., Date: 2024-07-05 10:00:00 - 2024-07-05 12:00:00, Speaker: Rob Allen, Job Title: API and backend specialist, Bio: Software developer with many years of experience in various interesting languages. Particularly interested in APIs and the ecosystem around them. Contributes to Slim Framework, rst2pdf & Apache OpenWhisk, along with other open-source projects., Track: PHP Workshops
Title: Writing your own custom PHPStan rules, Description: If you're using tools like PHPStan on your projects, you'll already be reaping the benefits. However, are you using them to their full potential?Do you have conventions on your project that you have to remember, either when writing or during code review? (E.g. a certain object should only be built by a factory. Or a method should only be used for testing.) Do you wish you could automate the checking of these conventions so they'd never be forgotten?Or do you wish PHP had features other languages had, e.g. Java's package visibility modifier?The great news is that PHPStan allows you to write your own custom rules to enforce all kinds of conventions or new language features.This tutorial will guide you through the basics of writing your own rules for PHPStan. We'll create several rules together, and by the end of the session, you'll be able to start writing your own rules., Date: 2024-07-05 13:15:00 - 2024-07-05 15:15:00, Speaker: Dave Liddament, Job Title: Director @ Lamp Bristol, Bio: Director and developer. Dave has been writing software commercially for over 20 years in many languages including C, Python, Java and PHP. Organizer of PHP-SW. Speaker. Author of an open source tool SARB. Creator of the PHP Language extension library., Track: PHP Workshops
Title: Critical Security Mistakes in Frontend Applications, Description: In modern web development, we often forget the importance of security and rely upon the frameworks we use to keep out attackers, which are getting more and more creative.In this talk, I would talk about the most common vulnerabilities in modern front-end applications and how to combat them., Date: 2024-07-05 13:15:00 - 2024-07-05 15:15:00, Speaker: Dan Neciu, Job Title: Tech Founder @ CareerOS, Bio: I am a software engineer, focusing mostly on the Front-end, in a love-love relationship with Javascript. I worked professionally on all Big Three Frameworks, but secretly I love React the most., Track: Javascript Workshops
Title: Master JavaScript Patterns, Description: JavaScript's complexity often challenges developers to write maintainable and scalable code. This workshop dives into technical nuances, empowering participants with tools to overcome these challenges. Developers will dissect foundational, object creation, and behavioral patterns through hands-on exploration alongside architectural principles. Attendees will learn to implement Module and Revealing Module Patterns for encapsulation, employ Singleton and Factory Patterns for efficient object creation, and leverage Observer and Command Patterns for managing dependencies and requests. By mastering these technical aspects, developers will elevate code quality, accelerate workflows, and unlock new possibilities in JavaScript projects., Date: 2024-07-04 10:00:00 - 2024-07-04 12:00:00, Speaker: Adrian Hajdin, Job Title: CEO & Founder @ JavaScript Mastery, Bio: I’m a seasoned software engineer, educator, and a GitHub star passionate about technical education. I enjoy making learning simple through hands-on teaching and a project-based approach., Track: Javascript Workshops
Title: The digital age of hydration: understanding the different types of hydration for web use, Description: Hydration is a technique that makes it possible to turn a static page rendered on the server side into a dynamic page on the client side, the main objective of which is to display a web page to the user immediately.This practice has been around for a few years now, and we are entitled to think that all the problems related to it have been solved.And yet, this is not the case. There are different hydration methods associated with different frameworks.So, what are these different types of hydration? Which method is used by which framework? Is this process really useful? Can't we simplify it even more than it is today?This talk will allow you to understand the stakes of hydration and server-side rendering, acquire the necessary knowledge to make the right choice of framework corresponding to your needs and present the Qwik framework., Date: 2024-07-05 10:00:00 - 2024-07-05 12:00:00, Speaker: Nicolas Frizzarin, Job Title: Developer Advocate / Google Developer Expert Web, Bio: Google Developer Expert Web and OpenJS Foundation Member. French FrontEnd specialist and UI Designer. Developer Advocate, Senior Staff Engineer, speaker, and community contributor, passionate about web tech and open source., Track: Javascript Workshops
Title: Typescript Meta-Programming from 0 to 100, Description: When applications are getting bigger, some tools and features that help to manage this increasing complexity become more required. Let's check some of these features: composition/dependency Injection, runtime type assertions, reflection/mirroring and more, and see how we can use it in real-life use cases., Date: 2024-07-04 13:15:00 - 2024-07-04 15:15:00, Speaker: Daniel Ostrovsky, Job Title: Senior Principal Engineer @ DELL, Bio: A seasoned Full Cycle Web Development Expert and R&D Manager. Brings over two decades of experience, skillfully leading both local and international development teams from concept to delivery. Recognized public speaker and blog writer, contributing to the open-source community., Track: Javascript Workshops
Title: Mastering Design Systems: A Comprehensive Workshop, Description: Design Systems! Why, how, when, and, most importantly, who owns it? There is not a single bulletproof recipe that we can follow and apply within every company, but there are best practices, tools, and steps we can include in our process to obtain the best result for our organization.A Design System is a living organism that can benefit any company. However, if neglected, it can lead to complicated work, tech and design debt, which can significantly hamper your organization's efficiency and productivity.In this workshop, we will explore the foundations of a good design system, why we need to build it, and what it takes to maintain it. We will also roll up our sleeves and go on a journey into a component's life from the idea's inception to what happens after it has been transformed into working code.Requirement Requirements:LaptopFigma account, Date: 2024-07-05 10:00:00 - 2024-07-05 12:00:00, Speaker: Oana Stroe, Job Title: Lead Designer @ Hubtype, Bio: Passionate and visionary Lead UX Designer. My mission is to create extraordinary user experiences that seamlessly blend innovation and functionality., Track: UX Workshops
Title: Accelerating journey mapping with AI, Description: This session will give you a low-tech overview of how the commonly available AI technologies work, and how they can be strategically applied in your experience and content design workflows.When it comes to UX research, we're often faced with incomplete research, tight budgets, and the pressing need to validate concepts quickly. Effectively creating personas and journey maps under these constraints can be challenging. This session shares a unique and proven methodology that leverages AI to craft personas and journey maps - even from incomplete data - to accelerate your time to collaboration and productivity. We'll look at how to use AI responsibly to avoid social harm and learn to be a better, more strategic bridge between human needs and machine capabilities.Requirements:Access to ChatGPT - ideally the pro versionAbility to access the sites Uxpressia.com and Miro.com, Date: 2024-07-05 13:15:00 - 2024-07-05 15:15:00, Speaker: Noz Urbina, Job Title: Founder @ Urbina Consulting, Bio: Globally recognized content strategist. Pioneer in experience mapping and adaptive content design for personalized, contextually relevant content for omnichannel experiences. Author of the book “Content Strategy: Connecting the dots between business, brand, and benefits”., Track: UX Workshops
Title: Defence against the Dark Patterns: UX Lessons from the Deceptive Side of the Web, Description: Have you ever left a website feeling scammed? Pressed 'I agree' before you even realized what you were agreeing to? If so, you've been a victim of dark patterns: UX patterns which deceive and manipulate the user. Often, the manipulation is intentional, but sometimes they creep into UX designs despite our best intentions, and so we need to actively defend against them in our work.In this session, you'll learn about the different types of dark patterns, how they harm users, and to what extent privacy law is combating them. We'll also discuss how to tackle cases where other important design considerations, such as usability and accessibility, conflict with maximizing the user's freedom of choice., Date: 2024-07-04 10:00:00 - 2024-07-04 12:00:00, Speaker: Cat Easdon, Job Title: Privacy Engineer @ Dynatrace, Bio: Cat is an engineer and researcher fascinated by the intersection of privacy, security, and tech policy. In her role at Dynatrace, she translates law and policy into code to protect users, designing product privacy features and building privacy controls into the software development lifecycle., Track: UX Workshops
Title: Bridging Theory and Practice: A Hands-On JTBD Workshop Experience, Description: A blend of theory and practice to enhance understanding of user-centered research methodology JTBD.This workshop is about hands-on experience and practical application of the Jobs to Be Done methodology through simulated live interviews during the workshop.We will dive deeper into how a product/service in focus is currently serving the job and where it might fall short, particularly focusing on opportunities for innovation that could address underserved needs with high potential. The goal is to learn how to conduct the user interview, map all the steps of the 'job', identify the underserved need with the highest potential and prioritize identified underserved needs., Date: 2024-07-04 13:15:00 - 2024-07-04 15:15:00, Speaker: Vlatka Šipoš, Job Title: Co-founder @ Resonate, Bio: Seasoned professional with international experience in digital product development. Specialized in helping clients find their product-market fit and discover innovation opportunities through pragmatic research methodologies., Track: UX Workshops
